---
author: slowe
categories: General
comments: false
date: 2005-05-11T22:53:20Z
slug: welcome
tags:
- Personal
- Blogging
- Writing
title: Welcome
url: /2005/05/11/welcome/
wordpress_id: 81
---

I've decided to try a weblog of my own. As indicated in the title, I can't promise regular updates, I can't promise any consistency in the topics I'll post about, and I can't promise that I won't say something that might offend you.

If you're OK with all of these caveats, then please read on.

First, some general background about me. I'm an IT professional running my own company, [Mercurion Systems](http://www.mercurionsystems.com/), based in the Raleigh, NC area. We're currently a pretty small company, but hoping to grow in the near future.

I'm also a dad, trying hard with my wife to raise our family. I won't go into detail on my family here, such as providing names or ages of kids, or anything like that, because (to be perfectly honest) none of you really need to know that kind of information. Suffice it to say that it is a large family and that I am blessed to have them.

And that leads me to my final (and perhaps most important) piece of information, and that is that I am a Christian. That I am going to openly discuss my beliefs and my religion here will probably offend some people, but my Christianity and my faith are interwoven into all that I am and all that I do. It's impossible to speak honestly here and _**not**_ involve my faith.

In any event, I hope that something you find here will a) help you solve a technical problem; b) encourage you as a parent; or c) lift you up in your faith.  At the very least, it should help you occupy some time.
