---
author: slowe
categories: Information
comments: true
date: 2014-09-10T23:55:43Z
slug: idf-2014-day-2-recap
tags:
- Hardware
- IDF2014
- Intel
title: IDF 2014 Day 2 Recap
url: /2014/09/10/idf-2014-day-2-recap/
wordpress_id: 3526
---

Following on from my [IDF 2014 Day 1 recap][1], here's a quick recap of day 2.

## Data Center Mega-Session

You can read the liveblog [here][2] if you want all the gory details. If we boil it down to the essentials, it's actually pretty simple. First, deliver _more_ computing power in the hardware, either through the addition of FPGAs to existing CPUs or through the continued march of CPU power (via more cores or faster clock speeds or both). Second, make the hardware programmable, through standard interfaces. Third, expand the use of "big data" and analytics.

## Technical Sessions

I attended a couple technical sessions today, but didn't manage to get any of them liveblogged. Sorry! I did tweet a few things from the sessions, in case you follow me on Twitter.

## Expo Floor

I _did_ have an extremely productive conversation regarding Intel's rack-scale architecture (RSA) efforts. I pushed the Intel folks on the show floor to really dive into what makes up RSA, and finally got some answers that I'll share in a separate post. I will do my best to get a dedicated RSA piece published just as soon as I possibly can.

Also on the expo floor, I got my hands on some of the Intel optical transceivers and cables. The cables are really nice, and practically indestructible. I think this move by Intel will be good for optics in the data center.

Finally, I was also able to join for an episode of Intel Chip Chat, a podcast that Intel records regularly, including at events like IDF. It was great fun getting to spend some time talking about VMware NSX and network virtualization.

## Closing Thoughts

Overall, another solid day at IDF 2014. Lots of good technical information presented (which, unfortunately, I did not do a very good job capturing), and equally good technical information available on the show floor.

I'll try to do a better job with the liveblogging tomorrow. Thanks for reading!

[1]: {{< relref "2014-09-10-idf-2014-day-1-recap.md" >}}
[2]: {{< relref "2014-09-10-idf-2014-data-center-mega-session.md" >}}
